NCAAF Package
=============

The NCAAF package offers multiple modules which can be used to retrieve
information and statistics for Division-I College Football, such as team names,
season stats, game schedules, and boxscore metrics.

Boxscore
--------

The Boxscore module can be used to grab information from a specific game.
Metrics range from number of points scored to the number of pass yards, to the
yards from penalties and much more. The Boxscore can be easily queried by
passing a boxscore's URI on sports-reference.com which can be retrieved from the
``Schedule`` class (see ``Schedule`` module below for more information on
retrieving game-specific information).

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.boxscore import Boxscore

    game_data = Boxscore('2018-01-08-georgia')
    print(game_data.home_points)  # Prints 23
    print(game_data.away_points)  # Prints 26
    df = game_data.dataframe  # Returns a Pandas DataFrame of game metrics

The Boxscore module also contains a ``Boxscores`` class which searches for all
games played on a particular day and returns a dictionary of matchups between
all teams on the requested day. The dictionary includes the names and
abbreviations for each matchup as well as the boxscore link if applicable.

.. code-block:: python

    from datetime import datetime
    from sports.ncaaf.boxscore import Boxscores

    games_today = Boxscores(datetime.today())
    print(games_today.games)  # Prints a dictionary of all matchups for today

The ``Boxscores`` class also allows the ability to query over a range of dates
using a second optional parameter during instantiation of the class. To query a
range of dates, enter the start date as the first parameter and the inclusive
end date as the second parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    from datetime import datetime
    from sports.ncaaf.boxscore import Boxscores

    # Pulls all games between and including August 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017
    games = Boxscores(datetime(2017, 8, 30), datetime(2017, 8, 31))
    # Prints a dictionary of all results from August 30, 2017 and August 31,
    # 2017
    print(games.games)

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.boxscore
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Conferences
-----------

The Conference module allows conferences to be pulled for any season using the
``Conferences`` class. Accessing the class properties exposes various
dictionaries containing the team and conference abbreviations as well as other
information. To get a list of conference abbreviations for each team, query the
``team_conference`` property.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.conferences import Conferences

    conferences = Conferences()
    # Prints a dictionary of the team abbreviation as a key and conference
    # abbreviation as the value.
    print(conferences.team_conference)

The ``conferences`` property can also be queried to provide more details on the
teams in every conference.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaab.conferences import Conferences

    conferences = Conferences()
    # Prints a dictionary where each key is the conference abbreviation and
    # each value is a dictionary containing the full conference name as well as
    # another dictionary of all teams in the conference, including name and
    # abbreviation for each team.
    print(conferences.conferences)

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.conferences
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Player
------

The Player module contains an abstract base class that can be inherited by both
the ``BoxscorePlayer`` and ``Player`` classes in the ``Boxscore`` and ``Roster``
modules, respectively. All of the properties that appear in the
``AbstractPlayer`` class can be read from either of the two child classes
mentioned above.

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.player
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Rankings
--------

The Rankings module include the ``Rankings`` class which can be used to easily
query the NCAA Men's Division-I Football rankings published by the Associated
Press on a week-by-week basis. Different formats can be referenced, ranging from
a lightweight dictionary of the most recent rankings containing only the team
abbreviation and rank, to a much larger dictionary of all rankings for an entire
season with results including full team name and abbreviation, current rank,
week number, previous rank, and movement.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.rankings import Rankings

    rankings = Rankings()
    # Prints a dictionary of just the team abbreviation and rank for the current
    # week.
    print(rankings.current)
    # Prints more detailed information including previous rank, full name, and
    # movement for all teams for the current week.
    print(rankings.current_extended)
    # Prints detailed information for all teams for all weeks where rankings
    # have been published for the requested season.
    print(rankings.complete)

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.rankings
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Roster
------

The Roster module contains detailed player information, allowing each player to
be queried by their player ID using the ``Player`` class which has detailed
information ranging from career touchdowns to single-season stats and player
height, weight, and nationality. The following is an example on collecting
career information for David Blough.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.roster import Player

    blough = Player('david-blough-1')
    print(blough.name)  # Prints 'David Blough'
    print(blough.passing_yards)  # Prints Blough's career passing yards
    # Prints a Pandas DataFrame of all relevant stats per season for Blough
    print(blough.dataframe)

By default, the player's career stats are returned whenever a property is
called. To get stats for a specific team, call the class instance with the
season string. All future property requests will return the season-specific
stats.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.roster import Player

    blough = Player('david-blough-1')  # Currently pulling career stats
    print(blough.passing_yards)  # Prints Blough's CAREER passing yards total
    # Prints Blough's passing yards total only for the 2017 season
    print(blough('2017').passing_yards)
    # Prints Blough's passing touchdowns for the 2017 season only
    print(blough.passing_touchdowns)

After requesting single-season stats, the career stats can be requested again
by calling the class without arguments or with the 'Career' string passed.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.roster import Player

    blough = Player('david-blough-1')  # Currently pulling career stats
    # Prints Blough's passing yards total only for the 2017 season
    print(blough('2017').passing_yards)
    print(blough('Career').passing_yards)  # Prints Blough's career passing yards

In addition, the Roster module also contains the ``Roster`` class which can be
used to pull all players on a team's roster during a given season and creates
instances of the Player class for each team member and adds them to a list to be
easily queried.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.roster import Roster

    boilermakers = Roster('PURDUE')
    for player in boilermakers.players:
        # Prints the name of all players who played for the Purdue Boilermakers
        # in the most recent season.
        print(player.name)

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.roster
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Schedule
--------

The Schedule module can be used to iterate over all games in a team's schedule
to get game information such as the date, score, result, and more. Each game
also has a link to the ``Boxscore`` class which has much more detailed
information on the game metrics.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.schedule import Schedule

    purdue_schedule = Schedule('PURDUE')
    for game in purdue_schedule:
        print(game.date)  # Prints the date the game was played
        print(game.result)  # Prints whether the team won or lost
        # Creates an instance of the Boxscore class for the game.
        boxscore = game.boxscore

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.schedule
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:

Teams
-----

The Teams module exposes information for all NCAAF teams including the team name
and abbreviation, the number of games they won during the season, the total
number of pass yards, and much more.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.teams import Teams

    teams = Teams()
    for team in teams:
        print(team.name)  # Prints the team's name
        print(team.pass_yards)  # Prints the team's total passing yards

A team can also be requested directly by calling the ``Team`` class which
returns a Team instance identical to the one in each element in the loop above.
To request a specific team, use the team's abbreviation while calling the Team
class.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.teams import Team

    purdue = Team('PURDUE')

Each Team instance contains a link to the ``Schedule`` class which enables easy
iteration over all games for a particular team. A Pandas DataFrame can also be
queried to easily grab all stats for all games.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.teams import Teams

    teams = Teams()
    for team in teams:
        schedule = team.schedule  # Returns a Schedule instance for each team
        # Returns a Pandas DataFrame of all metrics for all game Boxscores for
        # a season.
        df = team.schedule.dataframe_extended

Lastly, each Team instance also contains a link to the ``Roster`` class which
enables players from the team to be easily queried. Each Roster instance
contains detailed stats and information for each player on the team.

.. code-block:: python

    from sports.ncaaf.teams import Teams

    for team in Teams():
        roster = team.roster  # Gets each team's roster
        for player in roster.players:
                print(player.name)  # Prints each players name on the roster

.. automodule:: sports.ncaaf.teams
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :show-inheritance:
